git branch
Usage: git branch  

This command lists all the local branches in the current repository.

Git Branch Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git branch [branch name]  

This command creates a new branch.

Git Branch Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git branch -d [branch name]  

This command deletes the feature branch.

Git Branch Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git checkout
Usage: git checkout [branch name]  

This command is used to switch from one branch to another.

Git Checkout Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git checkout -b [branch name]  

This command creates a new branch and also switches to it.

Git Checkout Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git merge
Usage: git merge [branch name]  

This command merges the specified branch’s history into the current branch.

Git Merge Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git remote
Usage: git remote add [variable name] [Remote Server Link]  

This command is used to connect your local repository to the remote server.

Git Remote Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git push
Usage: git push [variable name] master  

This command sends the committed changes of master branch to your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git push [variable name] [branch]  

This command sends the branch commits to your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git push –all [variable name]  

This command pushes all branches to your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git push [variable name] :[branch name]  

This command deletes a branch on your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git pull
Usage: git pull [Repository Link]  

This command fetches and merges changes on the remote server to your working directory.

Git Pull Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git stash
Usage: git stash save  

This command temporarily stores all the modified tracked files.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git stash pop  

This command restores the most recently stashed files.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git stash list  

This command lists all stashed changesets.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git stash drop  

This command discards the most recently stashed changeset.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Want to learn more about git commands? Here is a Git Tutorial to get you started. Alternatively, you can take a top-down approach and start with this DevOps Tutorial.

Topics: OPEN SOURCE, GIT, GIT COMMANDS, COMMAND EXAMPLES
Published at DZone with permission of Sahiti Kappagantula, DZone MVB. See the original article here. 

Opinions expressed by DZone contributors are their own.

Popular on DZone
Microservice: Creating JPA Application Using Jakarta Persistence API in Payara Micro
Getting Started With Apache Cassandra
The Ultimate DevOps Hourly Rate Guide for 2022
Flow Control in Mule 4
ABOUT US

About DZone
Send feedback
Careers
Sitemap
ADVERTISE

Advertise with DZone
CONTRIBUTE ON DZONE

Article Submission Guidelines
MVB Program
Become a Contributor
Visit the Writers' Zone
LEGAL

Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
CONTACT US

600 Park Offices Drive
Suite 300
Durham, NC 27709
support@dzone.com
+1 (919) 678-0300
Let's be friends:   DZone.com is powered by  AnswerHub logo
